<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Money</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Money</h2>
    <p>Aside from people, the other things that laws are designed to protect are their possessions. Just like any other animal, humans require certain things (such as food and shelter) to stay alive. As most of us are only good at producing one or two of these, we need to be able to exchange our skills or produce with those of others in order to survive. Most countries achieve this through the use of a currency, which allows everyone who accepts it to trade with each other regardless of whether they desire what the other party produces. Furthermore, as money does not go off (and uses little space), exchanges can become a two-stage process with the money from selling something kept and used at a later date; effectively allowing people to indirectly exchange the fruits of their labours for a reward of their choosing.</p>
    <p>Unfortunately, as financial transactions have become the dominant way in which we acquire anything that we need, we have begun to see the value of things not based upon their usefulness to ourselves or others, but instead purely on their financial worth. As we must work harder to afford something that is expensive than something which is cheaper, we begin to assume that its higher price tag is somehow justified by it having greater benefits for our health or happiness.</p>
    <p>What requires the most money to obtain, however, is not necessarily that which is best for us. A car costing many thousands of pounds will contribute far less to a person’s well-being than the hundreds of meals the same amount of money could provide. Similarly, many things which can not be bought or sold (such as air and sunlight for example) are either essential to our survival, or of great emotional and physical importance. Having no price (unless they are assigned one arbitrarily), these will never be favoured if thinking purely financially and will often be ignored when large groups or organisations make decisions.</p>
    <p>Because each member of a group benefits from the combined efforts of the whole, it is generally expected that they will all somehow contribute to it’s collective well-being; those who work most towards the common good, therefore, should also be those who are most valued by society. Money’s corruption of our cultural value systems, however, means that many aspire towards careers which are of little benefit to the community as a whole. As money can be bought and sold like any other commodity, activities such as reselling and speculation (which are limited more by available funds, rather than time) allow those who already have wealth to increase it more rapidly than if they were in some way helping others. Having a higher financial worth, bankers and real estate agents have therefore become more ‘valuable’ to society than doctors or scientists. By basing our collective measure of worth upon money, we thus encourage parasitism when we should instead be promoting altruism.</p>
    <p>Apathy is not the only side-effect of a money economy, as capitalism also encourages competition. This is usually seen as a positive thing, as it promotes market growth and ensures that consumers get the best possible deal. While everyone requires money to purchase what they need, however, they will all also be competitors for the world’s finite resources. People’s attitudes towards their rivals are very different from those they have towards their friends, and it has been shown that we are far more likely to de-humanize those whose goals we see as opposed to our own. If your neighbour (through working for a rival company) could potentially cause you to lose your job, you are unlikely to treat them as an ally and comrade. If our peers are also our enemies, is it any wonder that wars and violence are so widespread?</p>
    <p>Furthermore, things produced by people are not all that can be bought and sold. Most of the world’s surface is now “owned” by someone. As laws state that you can not do anything on someone’s property without their permission, buying a piece of land and then charging  others for the privilege of living on it can be a very profitable enterprise. Plants, animals, and sometimes even other people can all also be bought, sold, and exchanged like any other commodity. These then become the sole possessions of their new owners who can do with them more or less as they please; but this raises an interesting question: what can the justification be for owning something not created by yourself, or given to you by another? The world existed long before humans evolved, why then should certain individuals have a right to use it to the exclusion of all others?</p>
  </body>
</html>
