<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>Wake up. It’s 2 minutes to midnight.</p>
    <p>The last century or so has seen scientific discoveries and technological innovations made at a breakneck pace. We have gone from a world without radio in 1900 to one where atomic clocks and satellites have made it possible for people to pinpoint their position on the Earth’s surface to within centimetres without even having to push a button. These advances have in turn led to a population explosion and (at least in the west) quality of life has been steadily increasing.</p>
    <p>With great power, however, also comes great responsibility. The late 19th and early 21st centuries have also seen an exponential increase in human inflicted environmental damage and the advent of state-sponsored mass surveillance programs. Technology may have advanced, but the fundamental structure of our society has remained largely unchanged for millennia. We have created for ourselves potent tools, but do we trust the intentions of those who wield them?</p>
    <p>One thing is clear: if technology continues to advance at its current trajectory, but our existing biases and social norms remain unchanged, our species’ days are numbered.</p>
    <p>We have lived as we live for centuries; not necessarily because it is the best (and certainly not because it is the only) way to live, but because it is the way we have been taught to behave.</p>
    <p>This short piece aims to question some of our preconceived notions of what society is, and should be; and will hopefully provide food for thought and perhaps even a start to further research.</p>
    <p>It’s 2 minutes to midnight. Perhaps it is time we questioned who we grant power over our lives? Perhaps, it is time we woke up?</p>
    <blockquote>Disclaimer: This piece is not the result of a carefully researched academic investigation, but merely my thoughts and observations over the last few years. I doubt that any of the ideas contained herein are original, but I feel that gives them no less merit. Others have undoubtedly said all of this before, but I do not reference them as I have reached the same conclusions independently and (I hope) those conclusions are obvious enough to be considered ‘common knowledge’.</blockquote>
  </body>
</html>
