<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Environment</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Environment</h2>
    <p>The planet, is an almost entirely closed system. While gas does escape from the atmosphere, and the occasional meteorite brings some additional minerals to earth, the total volume of such changes is minuscule when compared to that of the world as a whole. Like any other such system, therefore, any chemicals released into the environment will remain circulating within it until they react with another compound. Unfortunately, this is frequently part of a living organism, and prolonged exposure to certain elements can have fatal consequences. At the time of writing, in London alone an estimated nine and a half thousand people die prematurely every year as a direct result of air pollution.</p>
    <p>What kills people, frequently kills other plants and animals as well, and much of the world’s species are currently in massive decline. All life is part of a complex web of interdependencies, with the loss of one species causing a cascade of knock-on effects in other organisms. While the loss of a key species such as krill or grasses would have obvious consequences, just as a butterfly beating its wings in one continent can cause a hurricane in another, changes to the fortunes of one life form will effect all others they interact with; such as the loss of an apex predator causing uncontrolled growth in the animals they predate upon.</p>
    <p>Humans, like any other animal, have evolved under a particular set of environmental conditions and thus anything which significantly alters the balance of climate and environment away from those conditions will negatively impact our chances of survival. It may seem obvious, but as species we rely upon die out as a result of our actions (such as pollinators being killed by insecticides) we are bound to suffer from their loss. We often flatter ourselves that we have somehow gained mastery over the natural world, but the reality is that we can not live without it.</p>
    <p>Unfortunately, the vast majority of environmental damage is not visible in our everyday lives. Much of the worst effected ecosystems are those in the (uninhabited) oceans, and many of the most harmful pollutants are those invisible to the naked eye. Furthermore, the processes that lead to the production of these substances are often extremely profitable, or else not obviously damaging to the environment (such as excess energy use leading to the consumption of more fossil fuels). Being out of sight and mind, we often dismiss the effects of our consumer lifestyles as something to worry about only when they directly effect us; even if we know the eventual outcome of inaction will be catastrophic. What we can not see, however, can definitely still hurt us.</p>
    <p>To reiterate, if we destroy our foodstuffs we will starve. If we poison our water supplies we will die. And if we burn off our air, we will asphyxiate. As far as we are aware, life has not evolved anywhere else in the universe. Why should it be doomed to be a failed experiment just because mankind seems hell-bent on self-annihilation? Many excuse not altering the way in which they live as they will not see the damages that result in their lifetimes; but how can anybody be so callous as to damn the entire future population of their species to a lifetime of suffering just because they do not wish to sacrifice a few comforts?</p>
  </body>
</html>
