<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Authority</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Authority</h2>
    <p>For millennia we have deferred to the judgement of those we consider wiser and more knowledgeable than ourselves. When we are unable to find the solution to a problem we know little about, we will generally seek the advice of someone who is more learned in that field. If the recommendations they provide conflict with our own feelings we must then decide whether to continue with our original course of action, or to trust in their deeper level of experience. For example, when submitting to the authority of a doctor we will uncomplainingly endure increased levels of pain as we believe their assurances that this will make us better. Not all advice, however, is necessarily good advice; and for many, seeking the opinions of experts has morphed into a blind obedience to their leaders. For them it matters not whether they agree with what they are being asked to do, only that those asking it of them are ‘qualified’ to do so.</p>
    <p>As the atrocities perpetrated by every tyrant and dictator demonstrate, any form of hierarchical organisation promotes the abdication of individual responsibility. When they can be directly held accountable for their actions, most people will act in a way which reflects what they consider constitutes acceptable behaviour. This, of course, requires more effort than mindlessly following instructions as the full ramifications of what they are doing need to be considered. In contrast to this, when enacting the wishes of another it is all too easy to simply do what we are told; as the repercussions for any misdemeanours can be partially laid at the feet of another (I was only following orders), and those giving us instructions can be assumed to have already considered any possible implications of their request.</p>
    <p>Unfortunately, this means that when those dictating the behaviour of others deliberately intend to cause harm they will be obeyed by many without a seconds thought. As the number of people who defer to the authority of an individual increases, so too will the potential for damage from their orders. A single lunatic can cause little harm compared to one with thousands of devout followers ready to enact their every whim. If Hitler, Mao, or Stalin had had no followers, they would never have become more than a historical footnote. We describe many as monsters but the power behind them is supplied by thousands of ordinary people either too stupid or too afraid to say no; the blame for every wrong committed can not be pinned on these people, as we are often the ones carrying them out.</p>
    <p>As long as we continue to follow authority, society can only ever be as virtuous as those who are in power. Even if our leaders do not utilize their positions of influence to further their own agenda, any mistakes they make will be magnified out of all proportion.  A tool can only ever be as effective as the hand that wields it, and the collective labour of our entire species is far too dangerous to be entrusted to the minds of a few. If, instead of meekly doing as we are told, we were all to make our own decisions we would have a much greater potential for making positive changes, and a much reduced risk of negative ones.</p>
  </body>
</html>
