<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Sensory Perception</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Sensory Perception</h2>
    <p>Humans, are subjective beings. We perceive the world around us through our senses which gather information about our surroundings; its shapes, sounds, colours, textures, smells etc. Our brains then process this information and use it to construct a mental-model of our environment. As we can not possess any data about our environment which does not come through the mediation of our senses, we must accept their perceptions as truth. For example, if my brain interpreted the colour of grass as blue, lacking any information to corroborate this against, for me grass <em>would</em> be blue.</p>
    <p>Furthermore, everyone possesses senses which differ in their functioning and efficacy. Many people are deaf to certain sections of the audible spectrum (and can not hear sounds which are clear to others), whereas some are capable of seeing colours which are invisible to the majority of people (tetrachromacy).</p>
    <p>Whatever senses we are born with will then alter over the course of our lives as a result of the random forces acting upon them. Accident or age may impair some, while practise and regular use may make us more sensitive to others. As these changes are inevitably different for each individual, even if two people were somehow born with functionally identical senses, they would soon diverge to become unique.</p>
    <p>Identical stimuli will also be interpreted by each of us in a varying fashion depending upon our previous experiences. Those associated with negative events in our past will cause us distress, whereas any positive memories will give us pleasure. Phobias are a good example of this, as to some a certain object or phenomena is a source of intense fear and discomfort, while to others they present no such problems. To a lesser extent preferences in flavour, colour, and music can all also be attributed to the way in which the decoding of sensations differs from individual to individual.</p>
    <p>In addition to this, our thoughts are believed to be entirely the product of concepts or stimuli of which we have already experienced. By combining these components together we can create an almost endless variety of new ideas. In a similar fashion to cooking, we are not only capable of producing a large number of recipes from a small number of basic ingredients, but will also be able to anticipate their likely characteristics based upon those of their constituent parts. Once we have created such a recipe, we can then in future easily call it to mind without having to reassemble it from the ground upwards.</p>
    <p>The downside to this, is that we will find it difficult to conceive of an idea constructed from components we were previously unaware of. To return to the example of food, if I had never tasted chilli I would find it almost impossible to imagine what a curry might taste like; the concept to me would be totally alien. As we can not perceive the world through the senses of another, we would have equal difficulty in visualising how it might appear from their point of view. Someone who had only lived in a desert could not be expected to have a conception of the ocean, nor those who dwell on islands one of a world without it.</p>
    <p>Further complicating this issue is the human system of associating objects and concepts with words. These labels (cat, big, grey etc.) allow us to refer to something without having to describe it’s characteristics in-depth (e.g. furry, four-legged animal that purrs and eats mice); saving us time and resources, much like the mental instructions mentioned earlier. As we share these labels with others (and are incapable of understanding how they may perceive them), however,  we can not be sure that we all comprehend them in the same way.</p>
    <p>If two people are told by their parents that a pear is green, they will both then subsequently refer to that colour as green, but they may not be perceiving the same hue. This is known to happen to a certain extent with colour blindness; as some people lack the necessary cells to perceive certain colours, instead observing only a very limited palette. If as a child they are taught that a particular shade of grey is called red, they will then naturally refer to it as such, despite not seeing it as those without colour blindness do.</p>
    <p>The implication of all this, is that no two people view the world identically. We all perceive it through our own unique perceptual fingerprint. As our own viewpoint is the only one we can experience, effectively (for us), that is reality. None of us can observe the world objectively, nor can we do so through the subjectivity of another. A disco would be a very different place for a blind person than for someone who was deaf, but neither of them would be experiencing it in the same way as those without such ailments.</p>
  </body>
</html>
