<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Violence</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Violence</h2>
    <p>Despite the obvious benefits of cooperation, many people employ force to take what they want from others. Whether the aggressor is a mugger stealing someone else’s money, or one country invading another, this is often based upon the belief that others of your kind are somehow competitors; whether in terms of mates, resources, or beliefs, and that by killing or injuring them that competition will be reduced.</p>
    <p>The flaw with this logic is that, even if violence had no effect on the behaviour of others, it makes little sense mathematically. Any conflict is inherently risky, and before attacking another organism, any animal must determine whether the potential benefits outweigh the risks of death or injury. These benefits will always be greatest when there are a small number of individuals; the lower the number of rivals, the higher the percentage difference the removal of one will make. Currently, however, the global population is over seven billion people. Proportionally, the death of any one of whom will make such a small difference, that the risks of conflict must outweigh any potential gains. When removing one of your rivals only makes a 0.00000001351% difference to the remaining total, how can it be worth risking your life to do so?</p>
    <p>Furthermore, the implications of conflict are not merely a balance of probabilities. Humans invariably modify their interactions with others based upon their behaviour; and (as mentioned earlier) if people treat violently with their peers they will be unlikely to receive help from those who hear of their actions. Few take kindly to people who harm their loved ones. Even if they do not directly seek revenge, they will be unlikely to support whatever cause that injury was used to promote. If violence must be used to further a belief or philosophy, then those who preach it can not be secure in the belief that they are right. Those who live by the sword, frequently die by it as well; something that does not lead to a long and happy life.</p>
    <p>Not all strife, however, is pre-meditated. As human beings we are ruled by more than just our brains and many of our decisions are not (at least initially) concious, but merely hard-wired responses to certain stimulus. We have evolved so that in particular circumstances our bodies are able to react without having to wait for concious approval; thus minimizing the risk of injury where a delayed reaction could have serious consequences (such as picking up a burning hot object). In situations of acute stress our flight or fight response will also cause the release of a mixture of hormones to boost our pain tolerance, reaction speed, and aggression. While extremely useful for fighting off predators, contemporary modes of living mean this adaptation can often be triggered when our lives are not actually threatened.</p>
    <p>Much of the world’s population now live at a density that is far higher than that experienced by our hunter-gatherer ancestors. The increase in social interactions this brings about causes many who live in towns and cities to become habituated to unnatural levels of stress and anxiety; as they must continually be aware of, and reacting to, the deeds of others. In situations where they think they are relaxed, therefore, these peoples’ bodies may actually be in a state of heightened arousal. Any increase in stress under these circumstances, could result in them reacting violently to another person before they are fully aware of what they are doing; merely because their already stressed bodies would be pushed beyond an evolutionary threshold.</p>
    <p>As globalisation brings more cultures together, we are increasingly brought into contact with people whose customs and traditions are sometimes frighteningly different from our own. As we do not understand these people we may come to fear them as a potentially dangerous and threatening unknown. Hate often flows from fear, and those who we despise the most are also often those with whom we can not relate. If we wish to live a life free from fear and violence, therefore, need we just attempt to understand our peers?</p>
  </body>
</html>
