<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Law and Government</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Law and Government</h2>
    <p>In order to protect themselves from violence, most societies control the behaviour of their members through laws. These common codes of conduct aim to ensure that no one can take unfair advantage of their peers. To achieve this, those who do not follow laws voluntarily are threatened with punishment to dissuade them from harming those who do. By the very nature of this system, what applies to a group of people must also apply to all of their members individually; but this is not necessarily to our collective advantage.</p>
    <p>Laws, are not the only rules which have an impact upon our lives. As a species we attempt to govern everything from aircraft design, through to the duties of a host, using rules of one form or another. These (in the same way as those of a game) define what the appropriate response should be to particular circumstances or events (if a happens, then you should do b). Just like the rules of a game, however, they can only have a limited scope and will be unable to describe how to deal with previously unforeseen variables. As the complexity of events it tries to model increases, so too will the frequency of situations where the rule ceases to function as originally intended.</p>
    <p>All but the simplest of games will inevitably produce situations that are not covered by the rulebook. In contrast to these, any laws governing human behaviour have an almost infinite number of potential variables with which they must contend. Not only is every person unique, but the differences between them will be constantly changing according to their current environment, state of health, or relationship to others etc. Because it is impossible for anyone to take all of this into account, laws by necessity must treat people as one of a few generic templates.</p>
    <p>Being more than merely a set of simple attributes,  everyone governed by laws must in some way modify their behaviour in order to comply with them. This not only wastes their time and energy (as they must follow a sub-optimal course of action), but can also cause them harm exactly as if a single person were forcing them to do something. Just as a group of people going to a fireworks display would not expect someone with epilepsy to accompany them, so too are most policies only appropriate to certain individuals. Whatever course of action is decided upon by a government, however, must be followed by each one of their subjects, regardless of its impact upon their personal well-being. If everyone’s circumstances are unique, how can a small group of people know what is best for millions of others they have not even met?</p>
    <p>Notwithstanding these issues, most people are willing to follow laws in the belief that by so doing they are protected from their less scrupulous peers. From an early age we are told that laws are essential to maintaining peace and order; this being what most of us desire, we are unwilling to question our rulers for fear of upsetting the status-quo. As selfish and irrational as the dictates of our leaders often are, following them would be preferable to living in a world where people were constantly killing and exploiting one another. Unfortunately (despite the presence of laws and those who enforce them) that is exactly the type of world in which we live.</p>
    <p>We know, from numerous archaeological and historical records, that as long as people have been making laws, others have also been breaking them. Even with today’s life sentences and surveillance states, people are being murdered, mugged, and raped on an everyday basis. The majority of those who commit these acts will be apprehended by the authorities and their actions punished; but this does not help their original victims.</p>
    <p>The past is unalterable. As soon as something has been done, it can not then be undone. For someone to be prosecuted for something, they must already have done it. As the victims of a misdeed do not cease to be victims when the perpetrator has been brought to justice, the only people protected by laws are those who are yet to become a target of crime. If seatbelts only discouraged other drivers from crashing into us (and at the same time limited us to driving exclusively on monitored toll-roads), would anyone wear them?</p>
    <p>As well as being inefficient, laws also apply differently to the law giver and the governed. In most societies, taking the life of another is seen as the most abhorrent act it is possible for a person to commit; and the punishments for doing so are amongst the most severe permitted by law. Despite this, all countries employ large numbers of their citizens for the very purpose of killing those of another. Furthermore, the members of these so called ‘Armed Forces’ are often awarded certain privileges and preferential treatment not available to their law-abiding peers. If laws are supposed to encourage moral behaviour, why then are those who make them the least moral of all?</p>
  </body>
</html>
