<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Coercion and the Implications of Subjectivity</title>
    <link href="../css/styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body>
    <h2>Coercion and the Implications of Subjectivity</h2>
    <p>Whenever we make a decision (concious or unconscious) we will naturally be influenced by how the world appears to us. If another person was to be faced with a seemingly identical situation they, perceiving the world differently, might well take a varying course of action (any processes with different starting conditions are bound to have different end states). The conclusion they would reach is not necessarily any better or worse than our own, merely based upon different evidence. We would be incapable of acting on the situation in the way which is best suited to them, just as they would be unable to do the same for us.</p>
    <p>The issue with this comes when one person is compelled to take a particular course of action by another. Historically, this has often been justified by the person dictating the behaviour of others being in some way better qualified to make their decisions for them; being in possession of greater intelligence, a divine mandate, or familial authority. People would defer to their judgement (whether willingly or unwillingly) because they were considered to have a deeper insight than that attainable by ordinary people.</p>
    <p>If, however, no one can comprehend the entirety of any given situation, then any solutions to that situation which they propose must be in some way flawed for anyone except themselves. In this case, that justification for coercion <em>can not</em> be valid. No matter how strong an argument is, it can not be said to be superior to one whose value is unknown.</p>
    <p>As noted earlier, certain objects cause us distress. If faced with a situation involving one of those objects we are likely to favour a course of action that avoids confronting them. If another person was then to compel us to take a different action, they could be indirectly causing us harm by forcing negative emotions upon us. As well as mental distress, physical injury can also result from one person overruling the decisions of another. If we were to force someone with a pollen allergy to walk through an arboretum in bloom, would we not be harming them?</p>
    <p>As we are incapable of seeing the world from other people's viewpoints, this injury can often be unintentional. If we were unaware that the person in the previous example suffered from hay-fever (and were forcing them to get some exercise in the belief it would be beneficial to their health), we would still be causing them the same amount of harm despite having their best interests at heart. Other people are unlikely to react positively to any hurt we cause them, whether it is intentional or not; and what to us appears the safe and logical course of action, may not necessarily be so to anyone else.</p>
    <p>As living organisms, it is in our own best interests to survive. If this were dependent purely upon our access to resources at any given moment, manipulating another member of our species could bring us some benefit. However, our interactions with others are not isolated events, nor do they have no influence on the behaviour of those who observe them. Our every action may not always produce an equal and opposite reaction, but it is logical that others are likely to reciprocate in kind to the way in which we treat them; injuring us in retaliation for harm inflicted, or helping us in recognition of past kindness. As we wish to avoid harm to ourselves, should we not also avoid placing ourselves in a situation where this is likely to happen?</p>
    <p>A side effect of being a species of specialists is that, while we all excel at a few particular tasks, very few of us possess all of the skills necessary to keeping ourselves alive. By cooperating with each other, we not only ensure that we have access to the full gamut of these skills, but that there will be others who can perform our tasks if we are prevented from doing so by illness or injury. As we rely on these others for our survival, acting in a way which is likely to alienate them can only injure ourselves. People are unlikely to collaborate with someone who is know to be petty or aggressive, when they could instead be working with someone who is kind and generous. If we can not perceive the world from the point of view of another, what gives us the right to tell them what to do?</p>
  </body>
</html>
